My name is Daniel Moniz, and I am a gamer.

Perhaps it is misleading to say that I am today a gamer. I do not have the time
to play the copious amounts of video games of bygone days. Yet I play board
games when I can, and it was not so long ago that I worked, with daily studious
effort, from Bronze League to Diamond in Starcraft 2.

Nevertheless, I have played games for long enough, and - more importantly -
thought about games enough, that I have been able to extract life lessons from
them. And I don't mean life lessons in the lame sense; for example, "it's
important to use the rules of any system to your advantage", though there is
certainly sense in that. I mean that gaming has given me a perspective.

Perspective is not something to take lightly. If we could change our perspective
on life at will, we could modify our priorities, and could therefore change who we are. 
You could finally start flossing, or stop eating meat, or build schools for
children in Africa. Perspective is, as literally as possible, the filter through
which we view our life experiences.

Games have given me what I will call the "gamer's perspective". Viewing life
itself as a game, when healthy to do so, has its benefits. We can not only apply
the skills we have learned from video/board/other games to improving at tasks in
life, but see our successes and failures as lessons. A true gamer accepts
defeat and basks in it as a tool for learning. They strive for success, and upon
such success, do not limit themselves to a playing field where they will always be
successful. By this, I simply mean that a competitive gamer is always pushing to
be matched against their betters, so that they may in turn become better
themselves.

It makes me ask myself, how could this be construed as an unhealthy thing?

I begin this blog to share my own experiences with lessons I have learned from
playing games. I will be discussing gaming in general, and I will dive into
specific games that have taught me the most. As a teaser, I can say that I will
certainly be discussing StarCraft II and the lessons I learned from playing in
every league that existed at the time. I will absolutely discuss the problems it 
has caused me and my personal life, but I will focus on the filter it gave me as
my first real foray into competitive gaming. Other games will like include the A
Game of Thrones board game, as well as Supreme Commander and the card games 
Magic: The Gathering and Dominion.

If all goes well, many others will make life improvements in part due to this
blog. Tell your gaming friends, and check back for new entries soon!

Sincerely,

Daniel Moniz, AKA Paragon
