---
layout: post
title: LOSE NOW, WIN LATER
tags: [losing, Starcraft II, Supreme Commander, replays]
---

LOSE NOW, WIN LATER

Welcome back to Life and Gaming. My name is Daniel Moniz, and I am a gamer.

In the first article I said the following: "[Gamers] do not limit themselves to 
a playing field where they will always be successful." This overly general point 
is really about how often people win and lose at games, and more importantly, 
what we get from the losses.

Competitive games are very finite and conclusive things; a player ends with a 
win, a loss, or - allowed by some games - a tie. This allows players to play a 
match and immediately learn a lesson. Though this lesson may be misguided and 
eventually proved incorrect, it can nevertheless be tested immediately in the 
next match. In many cases I have to consider what went wrong and how I can 
prevent the same mistakes from occurring in the future.

People tend to act differently after a match depending on whether they win or
lose. At first glance, this idea makes a whole lot of sense; we should of course
be happy when we win and unhappy when we lose! Or should we? Let's call this
the Alpha Hypothesis. We are going to evaluate it in more detail at a later 
date, but we will start with a single premise:

A) If I lose a game, I have clearly done something wrong.

Can anything be more intuitive? While not necessarily and strictly true in every
single case, this is nearly a universal truth. If a player loses a game, they
have made at least one mistake. This mistake, if fixed, can act as a learning
tool in future games. Given that players tend to make absolutely oodles of
mistakes in any give game, a loss tends to be a gamer's best source of learning.

In a game like Starcraft II or Supreme Commander it is easy to learn from our
losses due to game replays. For those who have never played a game that allows
for them, a replay can be described as the game itself played out in front of
your eyes using recorded actions. You watch everything you did, but you can't 
make any actions yourself. This allows game makers to utilize the standard game 
interface for viewing replays with some added tools for viewing game statistics.

Replays, when equipped with extra tools, can be incredibly useful. For example,
Starcraft II comes equipped with a menu that displays a number of statistics:
number of workers, military units, total income, actions per minute (APM), etc.
A person can watch from any number of player points of view and figure out 
exactly where their game went wrong.

In short, if your favourite game allows for the use of replays, use them! For
the love of Jebus, do as I say. I watched the fewest replays in all of my 
least successful stages at RTS games. 

If replays are not an option, one must rely on discussion with opponents,
forums, and so on. I have gained a fair amount of information from people I have
never met simply by asking them what I did wrong at the end of a game. You 
might be surprised at how much people are willing to help one another.

Losing is a big enough topic that this will be continued in entry #4. Thanks for
reading, and keep on losin'.

Sincerely,

Daniel Moniz, AKA Paragon
