Welcome to Life and Gaming for the second part of the importance of gaming. My
name is Daniel Moniz, and I am a gamer.

So far I have obsessed over the idea of failure and its importance to becoming a
better gamer. We know from the Alpha Hypothesis that we can obviously learn from
our failures, since a failure to win a game almost certainly implies a mistake.

To explain what I mean when I talk about failures, I must explain something
about modern competitive gaming. Games are no longer about leaderboards in
arcade rooms. There are no longer ancient top scores people can only dream of
reaching, or games that people can only play together when in the same room. 
Modern games use the ELO rating system (used in professional chess) or other 
to determine players' skill levels and ensure that they are always matched
against others of similar ability.

These constraints ensure that players are, on the whole, winning about 50% of
their games. If they are not, they are either working their way up the ladder,
or slipping downwards. Assuming that players tend to find their equilibrium,
this implies that most people win about half of the time. Even the current top
3 players of Starcraft 2 (date: 2012-01-25) win less than 70% of their games. If
you're winning more than that, you're not playing against the right people. In
fact, if you're winning more than about 55% of the matches in your competition,
your game is likely failing to place you against opponents who are at your skill
level.

In many cases this is unavoidable. Board game groups can become stale because the
same person might win almost every game. I stopped playing Age of Empires 2 in
my first year of university (who knew residence living would be so conducive to
LAN gaming?) because I was tired of coming second place in every game. You may
also notice that the strategies of the winning player become stagnant. I cannot
stress the following enough: winning too often stifles innovation! It takes a
truly unique person to break out of the rut created by the adage, "If it 'aint
broke, don't fix it."

As it turns out, then, gamers lose approximately 50% of all of their games. Of 
course it averages out this way, but take a look at win-loss ratios on a much 
more granular scale. It also turns out that this is a pretty healthy win-loss
ratio. Such a ratio can even allow players to move up the ladder. Given the way
that (for example) ELO works, winning against a player far better than yourself
has a greater effect than losing to or beating a player similar in skill level.
Players can therefore be satisfied with losing a great many games in the name of
progress.

In life we can always increase our challenges. We can leave our old job 
and start another new and exciting one. We can go back to school if our career is
beginning to stagnate. We can even start our own business. We can run a charity
event or organize something for a local gathering. There are any number of
things a person can do to challenge themselves to achieve more than ever. So
many, in fact, that there is little point in iterating all of them.

The point at large is that there are too many things to learn in this world to
be winning most of the time. Adding risk to the equation can make a whole lot of
sense if it's going to give a person the life skills and experience they need to
succeed. There are many real-world examples to back it up. Rather than prattle
on about examples, consider the following questions: does a potential employer
prefer to see a few decent pieces of education and experience on a resume? Or
do they prefer to see that you are educated *and* you have experience starting a
failed company on your own? Which example displays more applicable real-world 
skills?

Fail hard and prosper.

Sincerely,

Daniel Moniz
