It's been weeks since I've done any writing for this blog. Though I made plans
to work on this blog every day, other life priorities have been getting in the
way. Things have been pretty damn interesting over here. I'm going to be
talking about committing to a plan, and this time I get to use some examples
from my own life.

I am running a sort of experiment on my own life. In short, I quit my job
without having another one lined up. Despite lectures from my elders (and
allegedly 'wisers'), I stand by my decision even without having secured
employment at the time of this writing. Let's dive into that decision in some
detail.

My situation was as follows:
As a software developer, I require an intense amount of learning out of my day
job. Without that daily education, I end up trying to work on massive projects
on my own time. Although this ensures that I am always working to improve
myself in a career sense, there are times when my job is so draining that I am
unable to work in the evening. Even having the energy to develop in the evening
puts strain on my own personal life.

Lots of complaining, then. No more, however, because on Feb. 6th, 2012, I
submitted my one-month notice, aiming to be finished by early March. Within two
days, my friend and co-worker decided to quit as well. Within one month I
discovered that two of my fellow developer friends were planning on quitting
their jobs as well. One told me that I inspired him! Why should quitting a job
be inspiring?

It all comes down to having a plan. With few exceptions, the Fundamental
Theorem of Supreme Commander (as written by P1nk!) can help us out. At any
given time, 100% of your in-game resources should be devoted to your plan. Some
people unconsciously try to escape this by inserting small backup plans into
their strategy. One example might be that a person is intending on playing an
ultra-aggressive strategy, but they find themselves placing defensive
emplacements (laser turrets, bunkers, etc.) because they are afraid of losing.
Unless one is at a high level of play, there is very little justification for
this. It implies, in fact, a lack of focus in the strategy.

One of the most useful aspects of gaming as a tool for learning is that they
have no effect on the real world. A person can try that ultra-aggressive
strategy ten times in a row to see if it works! Even if it does not work in any
circumstances, there is significant knowledge gained. One of the unfortunate
facts of life is that although we can learn many things from games, we can't
afford to throw away our life attempting radical new ideas. After all, we all
(that is, all of us living on our own, outside of high school) have bills to
pay and families to feed, right?

Wait a minute. I don't have a family to feed. In fact, I only have a limited
amount of time in my life without a family to support! And while I do have bills
to pay, I have never been a big spender - indeed, exactly the opposite. These
two pieces of information have suddenly freed my mind to start thinking of a
way out of my dead-end job.

I brought up the concept to my co-worker, and it wasn't long before we were
regularly calculating how many months we could survive in our current standard
of downtown city living. Our confidence grew as this number increased over the
following months. I started hatching a real plan for the next few years of my
life. It was admittedly vague, but I wrote down the first few steps in the form
of a Star Wars reference in a Google document:

Execute Order:
67 - Quit job (~1 month)
68 - Study, work on projects (1-2 months)
69 - Get new, more awesome job.

The "more awesome" part is really the key. With the 1-2 months of personal
development, I believe I can get a better job than if I accept one right away.
I haven't accomplished that goal yet, but I've only been a free man for one
week. I am, however, completely committed to the goal; I've already declined a
respectable offer at a downtown location!

Of course, I could still fail miserably. That's what it's an experiment. Maybe
that's the last job offer I'll ever receive. Properly reasoning about the
situation, however, tells me that 

This topic as it relates to gaming surely deserves to be dealt with in greater
detail. 
